---
layout: page
title: About Us
permalink: /about-us/
ref: nosotros
lang: english
---

# What is HorMinka?

We are a multidisciplinary, non-profit organization established in
the city of Neiva. Using science and technology HorMinka seeks to 
contribute to social development, by bringing together these two with 
individuals and organizations, considering the local, regional and 
national context.            

# Our Team

  * ### Juan Pablo Puentes, LLM
    *Chief Executive Officer*  
    <small>Lawyer, Universidad del Rosario (Bogotá)</small>  
    <small>Postgraduate Diploma in Computer Law and New Technologies, Universidad del Externado de Colombia (Bogotá)</small>  
    <small>Master in Laws and Technology, Tilburg University (Netherlands)</small>  
 

  * ### Leonardo Nieto Cortés
    *Chief Technology Officer*  
    <small>Electronics and Communications Engineer, Universidad del Cauca (Popayán)</small>  
    <small>Scrum Master</small>  
    <small>Experience in InfoSec and Software Development</small>  
 

  * ### Daniel Felipe Trujillo, M.Sc.
    *Chief Science Officer*  
    <small>Mechanical Engineer, Universidad de América (Bogotá)</small>  
    <small>Master in Bioenergy Technology, Lappeenranta University of Tecnology (Finland)</small>  


# What do we do?

  * We satisfy society’s needs using science and
  technology

  * We promote the generation of ideas from individuals and the community,
  while contributing to develop their full potential

  * We create and disseminate knowledge for the benefit of the society

  * We promote critical thinking in relation to science and technology:
  their economic, social, cultural and environmental implications


# Why do we do it?

Some figures can provide insight regarding the current state of science
and technology in Colombia. On the one hand, the latest PISA (Programme
for International Student Assessment) study reveals that 70% of the
Colombian students that took this test scored below acceptable levels in
the field of information technology. On the other hand, the Digital
Literacy Survey shows that 45% of Colombians have only a basic notion
concerning technology. Finally, investment for science and technology in
Colombia represents only 0,23% of the GDP, falling behind compared to
the average for Latin America and the Caribbean with 0,82%, Brazil with
1,15% and much lower than the average for OECD member countries with
2,47%.

We decided to take the lead and to act as change agents. We strongly
believe in people’s potential, we feel that is our responsibility to
take action in order to use knowledge as a tool for helping to solve the
country’s needs. We know for a certainty that only together is possible
to build a society where the free access to knowledge and new
technologies will allow collaborative work and real sharing economies.

# How do we do it?

  * We offer seminars, workshops, conferences and space for discussions that encourage the creation, dissemination and social appropriation of
  knowledge

  * We support knowledge creation by means of research and experimentation

  * We share a place for collaborative work, open to anyone interested

  * We plan and develop projects or initiatives that follow the objectives
  of our organization

  * We look for funding sources from individuals, national and
international institutions, to support initiatives aligned with the
organization’s objectives


# Our Principles

  * **Autonomy**: to stay focused on the organization’s objectives 

  * **Self-sustainability**: to generate resources to guarantee the operation
  and expansion of our organization

  * **Social Benefit**: to bring well-being and opportunities to the community

  * **Environmental commitment**: to reduce our impact on the environment and
to preserve the planet

  * **Free knowledge**: to ensure access to knowledge 

  * **Balance**: to provide solutions that combine and reconcile society,
  economy and environment 

  * **Diversity**: to offer room where differences are welcomed. to create
  spaces where the differences are welcomed. 

  * **Collaborative work**: to obtain better results and to strengthen the
  bonds in within the community

# Core Issues

  * **Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change**

    * Appropriate Technology

    * Renewable Energy

    * Sustainability Ethics

    * Food Security

  * **Technologic Sovereignity**

    * Technological Literacy

    * Free Software and Hardware

    * Digital Security and Privacy

    * Critical Analysis on Technology

  * **Free Culture and Community**

    * Collaborative Work
 
    * Free Licenses

    * Collaborative Economies
